in the last few hours the Israeli
military has announced what it's calling
a daily tactical pause in part of
Southern Gaza but not the city of Rafa
it says the halting operations will be
during daylight hours to facilitate the
delivery of aid aid organizations have
repeatedly warned of a humanitarian
crisis in Gaza Israel meanwhile has
released the names of the eight soldiers
killed by an amass rocket in Rafa on
Saturday the deadliest incident for its
troops in months Israel's prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu addressed the nation
on Saturday following the deaths of the
soldiers here's what he
said with deep sorrow in heavy mourning
I bow my head together with all the
citizens of Israel and mourn the fall of
our heroic Warriors Deputy Company
commander in the Engineering Battalion
captain wasm mmud and other heroic
soldiers whose names have not yet been
released don't let anyone distract you
from the simple and clear fact despite
the heavy and staggering cost we must
stick to the goals of the wall
destroying the military and governmental
capabilities of Hamas returning all our
hostages making sure that Gaza will no
longer pose a threat to Israel and
returning our residents safely to their
homes both in the north and in the South
Benjamin naha let's go live to Jerusalem
and our News correspondent John donison
John I wondered if we could start with
what we know about this tactical pause
that the Israeli military's announced in
the last few
hours well to be honest it's not really
clear because initially we had a
statement from one branch of the IDF
saying that indeed there was going to be
a tactical military pause each day
lasting from 8:00 in the morning till
7:00 at night around the km Shalom
Crossing from Israel into Gaza and then
stretching over to the main Coast Road
which runs north to south in Gaza we've
since then though had another statement
from the IDF saying that it wanted to
bring Clarity that there is no cessation
in hostilities in Rafa or in southern
Gaza and that the operation to get Aid
into Gaza is continuing as normal that
followed a statement from Israel's
Hardline national security minister
itman benav who said that whoever made
the decision to introduce a tactical
pause was both evil and a fool how much
Aid is getting into Gaza at the
moment well according to Aid agencies
and the United Nations not enough there
is no Aid Crossing in from uh Rafa uh
from the Egyptian side of the Border
we've got thousands of trucks backed up
there waiting to bring Aid in some is
passing in uh every day through Kum
Shalom but as I say not enough according
to Aid agencies the uh us built Pier off
the coast of Gaza has been dismantled
this week because of uh rough Seas uh so
there just isn't enough Aid getting in
the UN is saying that more than a
million people in Gaza are facing
starvation within a matter of weeks
Israel disputes that they say there is
no humanitarian crisis in Gaza meanwhile
the fighting continues and we have the
deaths of those eight Israeli soldiers
on
Saturday yep eight Israeli soldiers
who've now been named they were aged
between 19 and 23 so uh pretty young
this was the heaviest loss of life for
the Israelis since Jan January uh what
apparently happened is they had been
carrying out an operation against
Palestinian militants in the early hours
of Saturday morning as they were
retreating from Rafa one of their
armored vehicles was hit with some sort
of missile there was a large large
explosion and all died uh immediately uh
Hamas is saying it targeted that ve
vehicle with some sort of anti-tank
missile a week ago or so we were talking
about the possibility of a ceasefire and
we've had uh more comments from uh the
Hamas leader based in Qatar
today yes this is coming from Ishmael
hania the leader of hamas's political
Wing who's in uh Doha and he has said
that the the counter proposals I guess
that Hamas put forward to that American
Plan uh American Israeli plan were
consistent what with what the United
States has been demanding that is is
contradicted by really what the state
department is saying they say were some
of the Amendments that hassad proposes
were reasonable others were just not
consistent with the deal and I don't
think those talks are really going
anywhere at the moment Anthony blinkin
the US Secretary of State is now uh left
the region his eighth visit to the
region and there is a feeling I think on
the ground that neither Hamas
particularly their leaders in Gaza or
the Israeli government led by prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu I don't
really think either of them are pushing
for a deal at the moment yeah
interestingly the Pentagon saying that
the Israeli defense minister will soon
visit Washington for talks with his us
counterpart because uh Washington still
would like a ceasefire if they could get
one wouldn't they
they do want one I mean frankly the
whole world wants one the United Nations
has pushed for it with that security
resolution backing a ceasefire plan uh
last week there's no doubt that the
Egyptians and the qataris who are
mediating uh want it but it all counts
for nothing really if the two main
figures who are calling the shots and
that is yayya sinoa the Hamas leader in
Gaza and prime minister bet Benjamin
Netanyahu uh don't want one now here in
isra Israel there are elements of his
government on the far right who have
said they will quit the government
forcing fresh elections and bringing
prime minister netanyahu's government
down if he does a deal so it's hard to
see that happening the Americans insist
that this is an Israeli plan that they
have signed up to it but Benjamin
Netanyahu has certainly not said that
publicly John Donan live in Jerusalem
thank you